# Warm-Up

## Instructions

### General Review

- Define the following terms, and give an example of each.
  - **Block Cipher**: A cipher that encrypts fixed-size _blocks_ of bits at a time.
  - **Stream Cipher**: A cipher that encrypts individual bits at a time.

- How does block size affect the strength of a cipher?
  - **Solution**: Cipher strength _increases_ with block size.

- How does key size affect the strength of a cipher?
  - **Solution**: Cipher strength _increases_ with key size.

- Define the following terms.
  - **Asymmetric Cryptography**: Cryptography that uses a public and private key for encryption/decryption, as opposed to a single secret key, as in symmetric encryption. Asymmetric algorithms are used to drive digital signatures and build hybrid cryptosystems, such as that underlying TLS.
  - **Public Key**: A non-secret key used to _encrypt_ messages with an asymmetric algorithm.
  - **Private Key**: A secret key used to _decrypt_ messages with an asymmetric algorithm. A private key can only decrypt messages encrypted with the corresponding public key.
  - **Digital Signature**: Data generated by "combining" a private key with a message. Digital signatures are used to ensure the integrity and authenticity of a message.
  - **Digital Certificate**: An attachment to a message, associated with an entity, that contains a digital signature generated from the entity's private key, along with additional identifying information, such as verification of domain ownership, etc.

- What should an individual do in the event they lose a private key?
  - **Solution**: They should issue a publish a _revocation certificate_.

### Encryption with GPG

- Create a file called `~/.secrets/passwords`. Add a line like: `Facebook fakePassword`.

- Use GPG to encrypt your passwords file.
  - **Solution**: `gpg --output encrpyted_passwords --symmetric passwords `
  - **Hint**: Don't use asymmetric encryption (why?), and use your Day 2 Cheat Sheet.
    - **Solution**: You don't use asymmetric encryption because you're not sending this to a recipient—only _you_ will decrypt this file.

- Use GPG to decrypt your passwords file, but _do not_ save the output to a file.
  - **Solution**: `gpg --decrypt encrypted_passwords`
  - How could you use command-line tools to look for a particular password?
    - **Solution**: `gpg --decrypt encrypted_passwords | grep <Domain>`, where `<Domain>` is the name associated with the password (e.g., `Facebook` would find the password `fakePassword`)

### Digital Signatures

- Next, sign your passwords file with a detached signature. 
  - **Solution**: `gpg --output passwords.sig --detach-sig passwords`
  - Does this afford any advantage over simple encryption?
    - **Solution**: This ensures the integrity of the decrypted data. This is only a minor advantage in this case, as the file is _data at rest_, and is unlikely to be corrupted, by contrast to _data in motion_ on the network.

### Certificates and CAs

Refer to the following link when answering the questions below: <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/desktop/seccertenroll/about-certificate-hierarchy>

- What is the motivation for designing a certificate hierarchy?
  - **Solution**: Certificate hierarchies reduce complexity by reducing the number of certificates CAs have to consider when verifying a certificate.

- Define **certificate chain**.
  - **Solution**: A certificate chain is a hierarchy of certificates that lead from the user/client (e.g., you and your browser) to the root certificate CA.

- Which steps are taken to verify each link in the certificate chain?
  - **Solution**: Verification requires validating the following properties of each certificate in the chain:
    - The certificate is signed by the public key in the preceding certificate
    - The certificate is unexpired
    - The certificate has not been revoked
    - The certificate abides by policies specified by prior certificates

- What is special about the root certificate?
  - **Solution**: The root certificate does _not_ need to demonstrate that it's trusted by a higher authority. Root certificates are those issued and signed by and to the CA itself.

## Preview

In the previous class, you learned that asymmetric algorithms can be used to guarantee data integrity. You also learned that asymmetric encryption is computationally intense.

Today, we'll explore **hashing**, a fast cryptographic primitive that provides integrity, but _not_ encryption.

 Today, we'll explore the following use cases:
- Protecting passwords
- Identifying files, such as malware (!)
- Password cracking
