# Access Control
In this exercise, you'll review UFW by blocking HTTP and HTTPS traffic to/from your machine.

## Instructions
### Web Traffic Pt 1
- Open Firefox, and begin browsing the web. Navigate wherever you'd like, but make sure you browse to one of the below at least once:
  - `http://collegehumor.com`
  - `http://example.com`

- Return to your packet capture, and verify that you've caught at least some of your browsing traffic.

- Stop the capture, then launch a Terminal.

- Enable UFW, turn on logging, and run `ufw status` to verify that these commands worked.

- Configure UFW to deny all incoming and outgoing HTTP traffic.
  - **Note**: Use the port number, _not_ the protocol name.

- Verify your firewall rules.
  - **Note**: Use `status verbose`.

- Launch Wireshark, and begin capturing HTTP traffic.

- Launch Firefox, and begin browsing the web. Again, try browsing to one of the two sites below. 
  - `http://collegehumor.com`
  - `http://example.com`

- Check your Wireshark capture, and make sure it syncs up with your browsing experience.

### Web Traffic Pt 2
- Launch a Terminal.

- Use UFW to block HTTPS traffic to and from your machine.
  - **Note**: Use the port number, _not_ the protocol name.
  
- Use Wireshark to capture HTTPS traffic, then attempt to browse the web.

- Check your Wireshark capture, and make sure it syncs up with your browsing experience.

- Run: `ls /var/log/ufw*`. This should list all log files generated by UFW. Read the first log file, and answer the questions below.
  - What kind of packets does UFW log?
  - Look for logs related to your attempts to browse to `collegehumor.com` and/or `example.com`.

## Reinforcement

- After blocking HTTP traffic, you probably noticed you were still able to browse to several sites, but _not_ to `collegehumor.com` or `example.com`. Explain why.
